# Image-steganography

# ABSTRACT

For our minor project, we have chosen to do Image Steganography. The project was

primarily built using python programming language. ‘Steganography’ is a word de-
rived from two Greek words-‘stegos’ and ‘grafiya’ which mean ‘to hide’ and ‘writing’

respectively. It roughly translates to ‘hidden writing’.Steganography is the art of hid-
ing the secret data or information by embedding in various formats like images, audio,

video or even a text file. The most popular format is the usage of digital images. Firstly,

we did research on various aspects of steganography and analyze if the method was fea-
sible or not then we chose the least significant bit algorithm to commence our project.

Various helping hands and research papers were there while doing our projects which
made us clear about the application scopes and problem statements. We extracted the
sample images from internet and converted all into equal sizes. Then the LSB algorithm
was used to encrypt and decrypt images. This algorithm can use n least significant bits
to hide a image. Here we used 3 LSBs. Using more or less LSBs can have effects in
image quality of decoded images. Then the code was written in python language. After
the removal of errors and bugs, the output generated by our algorithm was compared
and tested using different methods. The result was acceptable with less loss of colors
compared to the original images. In our application we will provide a secure way to
send and receive secret image between people or organization so that no one other than
the person receiving the secret image will understand.

Keywords− Steganography, Cryptography, Stegos, Grafiya
